README.md, before:

# ConnectomeBench: Can LLMs Proofread the Connectome?

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/jffbrwn2/connectomebench.git
cd connectomebench
```

2. Install the package in editable mode (required to access the `src` module):
```bash
# Using uv (recommended)
uv pip install -e .

# Or using pip
pip install -e .
```

The `-e` flag installs the package in editable mode, which makes the `src` directory available for import in your scripts (e.g., `from src.prompts import ...`). This is required for the example scripts to work.


## Quick Start: Running the Benchmark

The easiest way to get started is using our example scripts with the pre-built HuggingFace dataset. These scripts demonstrate how to evaluate LLMs on each task.

### Prerequisites

1. Set up your LLM API keys (e.g., OpenAI, Anthropic)
2. Authenticate with HuggingFace:
```bash
huggingface-cli login
```

### Example Scripts

#### 1. Segment Classification
Classify neuron segments as correctly segmented, undersegmented, or oversegmented:

```bash
python examples/segment_classification.py --num-samples 10 --model gpt-4o
```

#### 2. Split Error Correction
Identify which neuron segments contain split errors (incorrectly split segments):

```bash
python examples/split_error_correction.py --num-samples 10 --model gpt-4o --prompt-mode informative
```

#### 3. Merge Error Identification
Identify which candidate neuron should be merged with a base neuron:

```bash
python examples/merge_error_identification.py --num-samples 10 --model gpt-4o --prompt-mode informative
```

### Common Parameters

All example scripts support:
- `--num-samples N`: Evaluate on N samples (default: all)
- `--model MODEL`: LLM model to use (default: gpt-4o)
- `--prompt-mode MODE`: Prompt style - 'informative' or 'minimal' (default: informative)
- `--output-dir DIR`: Where to save results (default: output/tutorial_results)

Results are saved as CSV files with accuracy metrics when ground truth is available.

## Advanced Usage

### Data Processing

The toolkit provides several scripts for processing connectome data from scratch:

- `scripts/get_data.py`: Gather training data from MICrONS or FlyWire edit histories
- `scripts/split_resolution.py`: Process and evaluate split error resolution tasks
- `scripts/merge_resolution.py`: Process and evaluate merge error detection tasks
- `scripts/segmentation_classification.py`: Classify segmentations

### Visualization

The `ConnectomeVisualizer` class provides tools for visualizing neurons and EM data:

```python
from src.connectome_visualizer import ConnectomeVisualizer

# Initialize visualizer
visualizer = ConnectomeVisualizer(species="mouse")

# Load and visualize neurons
visualizer.load_neurons([864691134965949727])
visualizer.save_3d_views(base_filename="3d_neuron_mesh")
```

`ConnectomeVisualizer` is built largely on the data organized and provided through the [`CAVEClient`](https://github.com/CAVEconnectome/CAVEclient/) library. To get access to the data, please see the [CAVEClient README](https://github.com/CAVEconnectome/CAVEclient/). Specifically, you will need authentication tokens to access to the datasets (see the link [here](https://caveconnectome.github.io/CAVEclient/tutorials/authentication/)).

### Dataset Access and Authentication

The toolkit supports multiple connectomics datasets, each with different access requirements:

- **Mouse (MICrONS)** and **Fly (FlyWire)**: Generally auto-authorized with CAVEclient setup
- **Human (H01)**: Requires explicit authentication. Visit the [H01 Proofreading Page](https://h01-release.storage.googleapis.com/proofreading.html) and follow the authentication steps. The H01 proofreading page also provides detailed documentation on the proofreading methodology (handling merge and split errors) that this benchmark is based on.

Once authenticated, all CAVEclient features (skeletons, edit history, API-based segmentation processing) are available for these datasets.

### LLM Integration

The toolkit integrates with multiple LLM providers for automated analysis:

```python
from src.util import LLMProcessor

# Initialize LLM processor
processor = LLMProcessor(model="gpt-4o")

# Process data
results = await processor.process_batch(["Write prompt here"])
```

## Advanced Workflows

The following sections describe how to generate data and run full benchmarks from scratch.

### Segmentation Classification

The `scripts/segmentation_classification.py` script provides a way to classify segmentations into different categories. To get the same results as the paper, run the following command:

```bash
python scripts/segmentation_classification.py
```

To run with custom parameters (e.g., specific models, species, or number of neurons):

```bash
python scripts/segmentation_classification.py --models claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219 gpt-4o --species mouse fly --num-neurons 200 --k 5 --seed 42
```

See the script's help for all available options:

```bash
python scripts/segmentation_classification.py --help
```

## Split error resolution & merge error detection

The toolkit provides separate scripts for testing LLM performance on split and merge error tasks:

### Split Error Resolution

Use `scripts/split_resolution.py` to evaluate split error correction. For mouse split error correction (identification) with Claude 3.7 Sonnet:

```bash
python scripts/split_resolution.py --input-json scripts/training_data/mouse_256nm.json --task split_identification --species mouse --zoom-margin 2048 --models claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219 --prompt-modes informative
```

For mouse split error correction (comparison) with Claude 3.7 Sonnet:

```bash
python scripts/split_resolution.py --input-json scripts/training_data/mouse_256nm.json --task split_comparison --species mouse --zoom-margin 2048 --models claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219 --prompt-modes informative
```

### Merge Error Detection

Use `scripts/merge_resolution.py` to evaluate merge error detection. For mouse merge error detection (identification) with Claude 3.7 Sonnet:

```bash
python scripts/merge_resolution.py --input-json scripts/training_data/merge_error_only_mouse.json --task merge_identification --species mouse --models claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219 --prompt-modes informative
```

For mouse merge error detection (comparison) with Claude 3.7 Sonnet:

```bash
python scripts/merge_resolution.py --input-json scripts/training_data/merge_error_only_mouse.json --task merge_comparison --species mouse --models claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219 --prompt-modes informative
```

## Testing

Install test dependencies and run tests:
```bash
# Using uv
uv pip install -e ".[test]"

# Or using pip
pip install -e ".[test]"

# Run tests
pytest
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

When contributing:
1. Write tests for new features
2. Ensure all tests pass: `pytest`
3. Check code coverage: `pytest --cov=src`
4. Follow existing code style and conventions

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Citation

If you use this toolkit in your research, please cite:

```
@software{connectomebench2025,
  author = {Jeff Brown, Andrew Kirjner, Tim Farkas},
  title = {ConnectomeBench: Can LLMs proofread the connectome?},
  year = {2025},
  publisher = {GitHub},
  url = {https://github.com/jffbrwn2/connectomebench}
}
```

Commit message:

Add zebrafish (Fish1) dataset support
- Add Fish1 configuration to ConnectomeVisualizer (datastack, paths, server)
- Add downsample_segmentation() for Fish1's inverted resolution (EM 32nm > Seg 16nm)
- Update get_data.py to use get_delta_roots() for zebrafish (finds 31K edited neurons)
- Add NumpyEncoder for JSON serialization of numpy
- Add Fish1 client example to CAVEsetup.ipynb
- Update README with zebrafish documentation

README.md, after:

# ConnectomeBench: Can LLMs Proofread the Connectome?

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/jffbrwn2/connectomebench.git
cd connectomebench
```

2. Install the package in editable mode (required to access the `src` module):
```bash
# Using uv (recommended)
uv pip install -e .

# Or using pip
pip install -e .
```

The `-e` flag installs the package in editable mode, which makes the `src` directory available for import in your scripts (e.g., `from src.prompts import ...`). This is required for the example scripts to work.


## Quick Start: Running the Benchmark

The easiest way to get started is using our example scripts with the pre-built HuggingFace dataset. These scripts demonstrate how to evaluate LLMs on each task.

### Prerequisites

1. Set up your LLM API keys (e.g., OpenAI, Anthropic)
2. Authenticate with HuggingFace:
```bash
huggingface-cli login
```

### Example Scripts

#### 1. Segment Classification
Classify neuron segments as correctly segmented, undersegmented, or oversegmented:

```bash
python examples/segment_classification.py --num-samples 10 --model gpt-4o
```

#### 2. Split Error Correction
Identify which neuron segments contain split errors (incorrectly split segments):

```bash
python examples/split_error_correction.py --num-samples 10 --model gpt-4o --prompt-mode informative
```

#### 3. Merge Error Identification
Identify which candidate neuron should be merged with a base neuron:

```bash
python examples/merge_error_identification.py --num-samples 10 --model gpt-4o --prompt-mode informative
```

### Common Parameters

All example scripts support:
- `--num-samples N`: Evaluate on N samples (default: all)
- `--model MODEL`: LLM model to use (default: gpt-4o)
- `--prompt-mode MODE`: Prompt style - 'informative' or 'minimal' (default: informative)
- `--output-dir DIR`: Where to save results (default: output/tutorial_results)

Results are saved as CSV files with accuracy metrics when ground truth is available.

## Advanced Usage

### Data Processing

The toolkit provides several scripts for processing connectome data from scratch:

- `scripts/get_data.py`: Gather training data from MICrONS or FlyWire edit histories
- `scripts/split_resolution.py`: Process and evaluate split error resolution tasks
- `scripts/merge_resolution.py`: Process and evaluate merge error detection tasks
- `scripts/segmentation_classification.py`: Classify segmentations

### Visualization

The `ConnectomeVisualizer` class provides tools for visualizing neurons and EM data:

```python
from src.connectome_visualizer import ConnectomeVisualizer

# Initialize visualizer for any supported species
visualizer = ConnectomeVisualizer(species="zebrafish")  # or "mouse", "fly", "human", "zebrafish"

# Load and visualize neurons
visualizer.load_neurons([864691134965949727])
visualizer.save_3d_views(base_filename="3d_neuron_mesh")
```

`ConnectomeVisualizer` is built largely on the data organized and provided through the [`CAVEClient`](https://github.com/CAVEconnectome/CAVEclient/) library. To get access to the data, please see the [CAVEClient README](https://github.com/CAVEconnectome/CAVEclient/). Specifically, you will need authentication tokens to access to the datasets (see the link [here](https://caveconnectome.github.io/CAVEclient/tutorials/authentication/)).

### Dataset Access and Authentication

The toolkit supports multiple connectomics datasets, each with different access requirements:

- **Mouse (MICrONS)** and **Fly (FlyWire)**: Generally auto-authorized with CAVEclient setup
- **Human (H01)**: Requires explicit authentication. Visit the [H01 Proofreading Page](https://h01-release.storage.googleapis.com/proofreading.html) and follow the authentication steps. The H01 proofreading page also provides detailed documentation on the proofreading methodology (handling merge and split errors) that this benchmark is based on.
- **Zebrafish (Fish1)**: Requires explicit authentication. Visit the [Fish1 Tutorials Page](https://fish1-release.storage.googleapis.com/tutorials.html) and follow the authentication steps. Fish1 uses the same CAVEclient server infrastructure as H01.

Once authenticated, all CAVEclient features (skeletons, edit history, API-based segmentation processing) are available for these datasets.

### LLM Integration

The toolkit integrates with multiple LLM providers for automated analysis:

```python
from src.util import LLMProcessor

# Initialize LLM processor
processor = LLMProcessor(model="gpt-4o")

# Process data
results = await processor.process_batch(["Write prompt here"])
```

## Advanced Workflows

The following sections describe how to generate data and run full benchmarks from scratch.

### Segmentation Classification

The `scripts/segmentation_classification.py` script provides a way to classify segmentations into different categories. To get the same results as the paper, run the following command:

```bash
python scripts/segmentation_classification.py
```

To run with custom parameters (e.g., specific models, species, or number of neurons):

```bash
python scripts/segmentation_classification.py --models claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219 gpt-4o --species mouse fly --num-neurons 200 --k 5 --seed 42
```

See the script's help for all available options:

```bash
python scripts/segmentation_classification.py --help
```

## Split error resolution & merge error detection

The toolkit provides separate scripts for testing LLM performance on split and merge error tasks:

### Split Error Resolution

Use `scripts/split_resolution.py` to evaluate split error correction. For mouse split error correction (identification) with Claude 3.7 Sonnet:

```bash
python scripts/split_resolution.py --input-json scripts/training_data/mouse_256nm.json --task split_identification --species mouse --zoom-margin 2048 --models claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219 --prompt-modes informative
```

For mouse split error correction (comparison) with Claude 3.7 Sonnet:

```bash
python scripts/split_resolution.py --input-json scripts/training_data/mouse_256nm.json --task split_comparison --species mouse --zoom-margin 2048 --models claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219 --prompt-modes informative
```

### Merge Error Detection

Use `scripts/merge_resolution.py` to evaluate merge error detection. For mouse merge error detection (identification) with Claude 3.7 Sonnet:

```bash
python scripts/merge_resolution.py --input-json scripts/training_data/merge_error_only_mouse.json --task merge_identification --species mouse --models claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219 --prompt-modes informative
```

For mouse merge error detection (comparison) with Claude 3.7 Sonnet:

```bash
python scripts/merge_resolution.py --input-json scripts/training_data/merge_error_only_mouse.json --task merge_comparison --species mouse --models claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219 --prompt-modes informative
```

## Testing

Install test dependencies and run tests:
```bash
# Using uv
uv pip install -e ".[test]"

# Or using pip
pip install -e ".[test]"

# Run tests
pytest
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

When contributing:
1. Write tests for new features
2. Ensure all tests pass: `pytest`
3. Check code coverage: `pytest --cov=src`
4. Follow existing code style and conventions

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Citation

If you use this toolkit in your research, please cite:

```
@software{connectomebench2025,
  author = {Jeff Brown, Andrew Kirjner, Tim Farkas},
  title = {ConnectomeBench: Can LLMs proofread the connectome?},
  year = {2025},
  publisher = {GitHub},
  url = {https://github.com/jffbrwn2/connectomebench}
}
```
